> Date: Wed, 5 Mar 2014 09:59:16 +0800
> Subject: ASIAA/CCMS/IAMS/LeCosPA/NTU-Physics Joint Colloquium, March 11
> From: "J.-P. Wu" <jpw750811@gmail.com>
> To: swallow <swallow@phys.ntu.edu.tw>, whchen <whchen@gate.sinica.edu.tw>,
>       astro <astro@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>,

Dear Colleagues,

You are cordially invited to attend the Joint Colloquium which will be held
on March 11 (http://web.phys.ntu.edu.tw/colloquium/).

The Joint Colloquium Series is organized by the NTU Physics Department,
Center for Condensed Matter Science (CCMS), Leung Center for Cosmology and
Particle Astrophysics (LeCosPA), Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and
Astrophysics (ASIAA), and the Institute of Atomic and Molecular Sciences
(IAMS).

The idea is to have excellent speakers to give inspiring, informative, but
non-technical talks on the frontiers of Sciences.

Enclosed below is the information of the Joint Colloquium on March 11.

P.S. We don't have colloquium lunch this time because the speaker has a
tight schedule.

Best regards,

Yen-Ting Lin (ASIAA)
Michitoshi Hayashi (CCMS)
Chia-Lung Hsieh (IAMS)
Jiwoo Nam (LeCosPA)
Yuan-Huei Chang (NTU-Phys)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ASIAA/CCMS/IAMS/LeCosPA/NTU-Physics Joint Colloquium

Speaker: Wen Yih Isaac Tseng

               (National Taiwan University, College of Medicine)

Topic :  *Application of Diffusion MRI to Cancer, Heart, and Brain
Connectome Imaging*

Time  : 03/11 (Tue.) 14:20 - 15:20

Place : Room 104, CCMS-New Physics Building

Abstract:
    Diffusion MRI is a technique that allows us to measure the
translational motion of the water molecules. The technique entails
application of a pair of strong and brief magnetic gradients to
phase-encode the positions of water molecules from which the displacement
probability of water diffusion can be estimated. Since the technique often
requires multiple measurements with different gradient strengths and
directions, the scanning often last for hours using conventional MRI pulse
sequences such as the spin echo sequence. Such long scan time prohibits the
application of diffusion MRI to clinical patients. It was not until the
ultrafast imaging technique, called echo planar imaging, became a standard
package in the clinical scanners in the early 90's, clinical application of
diffusion MRI started to be feasible. The first clinical value of diffusion MRI
is the detection of acute stroke. It has become a routine examination to
diagnose acute stroke especially in the emergency practice. With the
improvement of the diffusion techniques, diffusion MRI has been
successfully applied to many other diseases. Diffusion MRI is extremely
sensitive to cancerous tissue because the water diffusion is restrictive in
a tissue that contains high cell density or tortuous interstitial space.
Therefore, the mean diffusivity of the cancerous tissue is relatively lower
than that of the normal tissue. We have used diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)
to serve as a screening tool for patients who are suspected to have
prostate cancer and are scheduled to receive trans-rectal ultrasound
biopsy. DTI shows high sensitivity and high negative predictive value when
it is compared with the biopsy results. Diffusion MRI can equally reveal
the well-organized myocardial fiber architecture in a normal heart. The
technique has been applied to patients with myocardial disease such as
hypertrophic
cardiomyopathy or myocardial infarction. It shows how the myocardial fiber
architecture is altered in these diseases and their functional consequences
under such alteration. Advanced diffusion MRI techniques such as diffusion
spectrum imaging not only reveal the fiber tract bundles in the brain, but
also evaluate the integrity of the white matter tracts. Such information
points to the soundness of white matter connection in the brain circuitry,
and so diffusion EPI could potentially provide objective evidence for the
diagnosis of mental disorders such as schizophrenia. In conclusion, recent
progress in diffusion MRI has proved its potential clinical values. The
future direction would be the improvement of gradient performance to
achieve better image quality and shorter scan time. In addition, it is
imperative
to develop user-friendly software for efficient management, calculation and
visualization of the diffusion MRI results.

Brief Bio:
    Doctor Wen-Yih Tseng graduated from Department of Nuclear Engineering
in National Tsing Hua University, then studied Post-baccalaureate Medicine
Department in National Taiwan University. After five years of doctor life,
he went abroad to Massachusetts Institute of Technology to finish his Ph. D
in Nuclear Engineering, and post doc research in MGH-NMR Center, Harvard
Medical School. His research interests include magnetic resonance in
cardiovascular imaging, neuroimaging and cancer imaging, diffusion and
perfusion MRI techniques and application to clinical studies. Now he is an
attending doctor in Department of Medical Imaging in National Taiwan
University Hospital, and also a professor in Center for Optoelectronic
Medicine in National Taiwan University College of Medicine.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
