> From: Tomo <itlhnis@gmail.com>
> Date: Fri, 11 Dec 2015 14:39:40 +0800
> Subject: NTHU colloquium
> To: astro@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw, =?UTF-8?B?6buD6byO6ICG?= <cyes4116@gmail.com>

NTHU colloquium

12/14(Mon,12:20-13:10) GBII R521

Regina Barber DeGraaff (WWU)

"Globular Cluster Survey of the Shapley Supercluster‚Äù

Globular cluster populations were instrumental in helping humans find
their place in the universe.  Now they are studied to find possible
clues to galaxy formation. Recent evidence shows that number of
globular clusters (GC), Ntot, scales with dark matter halo mass of the
host galaxy, Mhalo.  The correlation between Ntot and Mhalo gives us a
window into GC formation efficiency.  We are probing the high mass end
of this relation by investigating the globular cluster systems of 11
giant elliptical galaxies in clusters associated with the Shapley
Supercluster, the largest mass concentration in the local universe and
possibly a major source of the Local Group's 630 kms motion with
respect to the cosmic microwave background.  The sample galaxies were
imaged with the Advanced Camera for Surveys Wide Field Channel in the
F814W bandpass and are in the redshift range z=0.035-0.048.
We find a nonlinear relationship between the host galaxy luminosity LV
and number of globular clusters Ntot , with Ntot  scaling as LV to the
power of 1.6; thus, the GC specific frequency SN increases with LV for
these high-mass galaxies. Our data show good consistency with the
U-shape relationship between SN and host galaxy magnitude MV found in
other recent GC studies. Galaxies at intermediate luminosities near
the low-point of the U have both the lowest SN values and highest
stellar mass ratios, indicating that Ntot scales more closely with the
dark halo mass than with stellar mass. For one galaxy in our sample,
ES0325-G004, additional multi-band imaging was obtained, and we find a
bimodal globular cluster color distribution with characteristics
typical of most giant ellipticals.


12/17, 2pm, R524

Wing-Kit Lee (ASIAA)

Spiral Structure in Disks

I will review some mechanisms for generating spiral structures in
astrophysical disk systems such as galaxies and protoplanetary disks.
In particular, I will talk about my research on instabilities of the
galactic spiral arms, namely feathering instability. Feathering
instability may be responsible for the regular density structures
commonly found near the spiral arms. In the second part of my talk, I
will introduce some of my attempts to understand the three-dimensional
spiral shocks in a protoplanetary disk.


12/18, 1pm, R521

Sperello di Serego Alighieri (Arcetori),

The rich Interstellar Medium of Early Type Galaxies

 Early type galaxies (ETG) were once thought to be devoid of
interstellar medium (ISM), just red and dead.More recently it has been
established that they have a rich ISM, from the hot gas emitting in
X-rays to the very cold molecular gas and dust.I will review the ISM
of ETG, show how the various gas phases can survive together, and
discuss what we can learn about the evolution of ETG from their ISM.


Tomotsugu GOTO
Institute of Astronomy, National Tsing Hua University
http://www.phys.nthu.edu.tw/~tomo

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
