
 [The following announcement is a slightly modified version of the earlier
  job announcement in TAN (Issue Aug 31) but with a better defined job
  description for *TWO* position openings -- YJK ]


Microwave Receiver Engineer

Regular, Full-Time position w/ the Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy
& Astrophysics (ASIAA), Hawaii Operations Group, located in Hilo, HI.
Duties: Design, fabricate, install, & maintain electronic detector &
auxiliary electronics for ASIAA equipment in the SubMillimeter Array (SMA)
project & the Array for Microwave Background Anisotropy (AMiBA) project.
Involved in design & maintenance of components utilizing quasi-optics,
microwave electronics, analog support electronics, & digital control
electronics.  Supervise technician to aid in his/her engineering tasks.
Construct specific electronics systems, purchase affiliated system
components, & supervise assembly & testing.  Participate in testing final
electronics & detectors systems in antenna systems, & verify that they are
brought to final specification on site.

Requires: Bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering or equivalent.
(Associate's Degree & at least 4 years experience working at the level of
engineer may substitute for Bachelor\222s Degree.)  At least 3 years of
experience at the level of an engineer.  Experience in design &
construction of detector electronics, & in servo loop electronics.
Experience in deployment & field testing of sensitive electronic
instrumentation.  Experience in RF electronics & microwave electronics.
Experience in use of cryogenic systems.  Good communication skills &
experience in working w/ vendors while constructing precision components
is required.  Good working knowledge of heterodyne detector systems at
millimeter wavelengths.  Knowledge of theories, principles, & practices of
electronics engineering, & standards used in electronics construction.
Experience w/ millimeter wavelength microwave or radio physics equipment.
Ability to diagnose critically & test electronics circuits.  Frequent
international travel is expected & required.  Must be able to work at
14,000 feet, & pass a high-altitude medical exam.

Inquiries: Dr. Ming-Tang Chen 961-2931 (Hilo),
           e-mail: mchen@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw.

Closing: Oct. 31, 2004.  Salary commensurate with qualifications.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Job Title: Microwave Technician

Regular, Full-Time position w/ the Academia Sinica Institute of
Astronomy & Astrophysics (ASIAA), Hawaii Operations, located in Hilo, HI.
Duties: Support the works & upkeep of existing instruments for the
SubMillimeter Array (SMA) & Array for Microwave Background Anisotrophy
(AMiBA) projects.  Provide design, testing, installation, & maintenance
support to the IF/LO system during development, commissioning, & operation
phases of various projects of ASIAA.  Lead the microwave-related programs
at site.  Inventory maintenance of supplies, documenting modifications to
systems, & construction of new receiver components & systems.

Job Location: Big Island, Hawaii

Requirement: BS or equivalent degree in Electronic/Electrical Engineering,
or formal training program in Microwave Technology (i.e. apprenticeship
program) w/ demonstrated ability to perform the essential job functions.
At least 5 years postgraduate experience as a microwave technician.
Experience w/ operations on a remote site.  Previous experience or
familiarity w/ workplace safety.  Previous experience working w/ minimal
supervision.  Demonstrated theoretical & practical knowledge of concepts,
principles, techniques & practices of electronic theory, w/ particular
emphasis on complex microwave instrumentation.  Knowledge of modem,
computer-based instrumentation such as VME, VXI & GPIB. Knowledge of at
least 1 high-level computer programming language, preferably C & its
application to control & data acquisition systems.  Ability to work from
phases of various projects of ASIAA.  Lead the microwave-related programs
at site.  Inventory maintenance of supplies, documenting modifications to
systems, & construction of new receiver components & systems.

Job Location: Big Island, Hawaii

Requirement: BS or equivalent degree in Electronic/Electrical Engineering,
or formal training program in Microwave Technology (i.e. apprenticeship
program) w/ demonstrated ability to perform the essential job functions.
At least 5 years postgraduate experience as a microwave technician.
Experience w/ operations on a remote site.  Previous experience or
familiarity w/ workplace safety.  Previous experience working w/ minimal
supervision.  Demonstrated theoretical & practical knowledge of concepts,
principles, techniques & practices of electronic theory, w/ particular
emphasis on complex microwave instrumentation.  Knowledge of modem,
computer-based instrumentation such as VME, VXI & GPIB. Knowledge of at
least 1 high-level computer programming language, preferably C & its
application to control & data acquisition systems.  Ability to work from
schematics, sketches, prints, & verbal instructions to fabricate prototype
&/or final electronic systems. Ability to read & utilize schematic drawings,
mechanical assembly drawings & parts lists & the ability to operate basic
hand & power tools, including soldering irons, drill presses, etc., safely
& efficiently.  Excellent communication skills - verbal & written.  Must
hold a valid current driving license & be able to drive 4-wheel drive
vehicles w/ manual transmission.  Must be able to work at 14,000 feet, &
pass a high-altitude medical exam.

Inquiries:_Ming-Tang Chen 961-2931 (Hilo) or mchen@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw.
Closing: Oct. 15, 2004.

Salary commensurate with qualifications.


