> Date: Mon, 13 Mar 2017 11:08:04 +0800
> From: Shiang-Yu Wang <sywang@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>
> Subject: Second circular for ASROC 2017 meeting

Dear Yi-Jehng:

  Please help to post it in TAN. Thanks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Astronomical Society of the Republic of China 2017 Scientific Assembly
(ASROC2017)

National United University, Miaoli

May 19  21, 2017

The 2017 Scientific Assembly of the Astronomical Society of the
Republic of China (ASROC2017) will be held at National United
University on May 19 (Friday)  21 (Sunday), 2017.  This is an annual
event for all astronomers and astrophysicists in Taiwan to present
their most recent discoveries and observations, to report their latest
research results, to exchange ideas, and to organize collaborations.
Oral presentations and conference posters in all areas of astronomy
and astrophysics are solicited.  ASROC2017 is also an excellent venue
for students, in particular graduate students, to present their
research findings or progress from their thesis studies.

The meeting will include plenary talks, scientific and educational
sessions, poster presentation, and a business meeting. The featured
plenary speakers are 1) Prof. Christopher Russell of University of
California, Los Angeles. 2) Prof. Gabriela Gonzalez, Department of
Physics and Astronomy, Louisiana State University. Prof. Russell, the
principal investigator of the Dawn mission, will give a plenary talk
on ¨The Dawn Mission to Vesta and Ceres: A Mission in Space and Time.〃
Prof. Gonzalez, the spokesperson of LIGO Scientific Collaboration,
will talk about ¨Searching for - and Finding! - Gravitational Waves.〃

In the Assembly, the Society will also present the 4th Heaven Quest
Award to Academician Wing Ip for his distinguished contributions to
astronomical research, and the 4th Heaven Talk Award to Family Star
Club for their outstanding contributions to astronomy education and
popularization of astronomy. In addition to the scientific agenda, a
conference banquet will be held in the evening of May 20 (Sat) and all
meeting participants are welcome to attend; the afternoon is reserved
for group discussions or group excursions for choice. Exhibitions of
astronomical books and instruments are also planned during the
meeting.

ASROC2017 website is now open for registration and abstract
submission. The deadline for online registration is April 15 and for
abstract submission, March 31. Participants of the Scientific Assembly
should submit their abstracts and register on-line. A registration fee
of NT$1,000 (NT$800 for students) should be paid on site. The LOC has
secured special rate for local hotels. Please contact the hotel for
the reservation. For more detailed information and update, please
visit the ASROC2017 website at http://www.asroc.org.tw/asroc2017/en/.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

best
Shiang-Yu
On behalf of the organizing commitee

==============================================================================
