==============================================================================

Arizona Radio Observatory: Call for Proposals (2019A)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dear Astronomers and Astrophysicists of Taiwan,

The Arizona Radio Observatory (ARO) solicits observing proposals for the ALMA
Prototype 12-meter Telescope (12m) located on Kitt Peak, Arizona, and for the
10-meter Submillimeter Telescope (SMT) located on Mount Graham, Arizona, for
the period October 15, 2019 - February 15, 2019. Proposal candidates from
members of the University Consortium of ALMA-Taiwan (UCAT) and ASIAA should
submit up to THREE pages of scientific and technical justification (including
figures, tables, and references) in addition to their Proposal Summary Sheet
(download 2019B form form here):
https://www.as.arizona.edu/sites/default/files/ARO_Proposal_Cover_Sheet.pdf

All proposal candidates are required to list on the 2019B Proposal Summary
Sheet their requested observing blocks (the exact LST ranges to be scheduled
and number of times to be repeated), dates on which they are NOT available to
observe, and dates in which sources in those observing blocks are within the
Sun-avoidance zone (45 degrees at the SMT, 10 degrees at the 12m).

The 12m ALMA Prototype antenna currently supports dual-polarization sideband-
separating (SBS) observations in three bands: 4mm (66-90 GHz), 3mm (84-116GHz),
and 1mm (211-275 GHz). Observations with the new 4mm and 1mm receivers are
shared-risk for the 2019B season.  The 12m control system supports dual-
polarization in the same sideband or single-polarization in each sideband ("2
IF mode"; fixed 6.0 GHz IF frequency), position-switched, beam-switched, and
OTF observations. Backend modes for the AROWS spectrometer may be found on the
ARO Equipment Summary and Status sheet at:
https://www.as.arizona.edu/arizona-radio-observatory

The 10m SMT currently supports a dual-polarization sideband-separating (SBS)
observations at 1mm (211 - 280 GHz) and dual-polarization double sideband
observations at 0.8mm (325 - 370 GHz).  The SMT is the preferred site for 1mm
observations.  The SMT control system supports both dual-polarization ("2 IF
mode") and dual-polarization + dual-sideband observations ("4 IF mode") with
tunable IF from 4.5 - 7.5 GHz, for position-switched, beam-switched, and OTF
observations.  Proposal candidates should consult the ARO Equipment Summary
and Status sheet for additional technical specifications at:
https://www.as.arizona.edu/arizona-radio-observatory

Remote observing is available. Observers who plan to observe remotely must
supply fixed IP address(es) of the computer(s) that will be used during
observing on their Proposal Summary Sheet. For further information about remote
observing and other operational questions, please contact Tom Folkers, ARO
Software Engineer: tfolkers@email.arizona.edu

Scheduling of successful proposals will be done according to availability of the
receivers requested.  Graduate student participation is especially encouraged.
Proposals should be emailed in PDF format to kuan[at]asiaa.sinica.edu.tw by
midnight (23:59 CST) September 09, 2019 (Monday).

==============================================================================
