Arizona Radio Observatory: Call for Proposals (Fall 2015)
----------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Astronomers in Taiwan,

Observing proposals from members of the University Consortium of ALMA-Taiwan
(UCAT) and ASIAA for the 10-meter Submillimeter Telescope (SMT), located on
Mount Graham, Arizona, and the new ALMA Prototype 12-meter Telescope (12m)
located on Kitt Peak, Arizona, of the Arizona Radio Observatory (ARO) are being
solicited for the period October 15, 2015 to January 16, 2016. The proposal
deadline of UCAT/ASIAA for this 2015 fall semester is set on October 01, 2015
(Thursday).

The SMT currently supports a dual-polarization 1-mm (211-275 GHz) receiver with
ALMA Band 6 sideband-separating (SBS) mixers, a dual-polarization 0.8-mm
(320-370 GHz) receiver, a dual-polarization 0.7 mm (420-500 GHz) SIS receiver
with SBS mixers, a 0.4-mm (602-720 GHz) dual-polarization receiver with ALMA
Band 9 mixers, and a new Band 7 receiver with SBS mixers will be available in
January 2016. The SMT control system supports both dual-polarization ("2 IF
mode"), and dual-polarization, dual-sideband observations ("4 IF mode"), as
well as OTF mapping. The new 12m supports an ALMA Band 3 dual-polarization SBS
receiver (84-116 GHz) for this season.

Remote observing is available. Observers who plan to observe remotely must
supply fixed IP address(es) of the computer(s) that will be used during
observing on their Proposal Summary Sheet. Information about Remote Observing
can be viewed at: http://aro.as.arizona.edu/remote/remote.htm/. Graduate
student participation is especially encouraged. For further information about
remote observing and operational questions, please contact Tom Folkers,
Operations Manager at tfolkers@email.arizona.edu.

Proposers should consult the ARO website, http://aro.as.arizona.edu/, for
technical specifications and to download updated Proposal Summary Sheet
templates here: http://aro.as.arizona.edu/proposal_submission_information.htm .
Proposal candidates are required to list on the Proposal Summary Sheet their
requested observing blocks (LST ranges), dates on which they are NOT available
to observe, and dates in which sources in those observing blocks are within the
Sun-avoidance zone (44 degrees at the SMT).

Proposals should consist of:
1.  A Proposal Summary Sheet.
2.  A brief scientific and technical justification (no more than 2 pages).
3.  A source list with observing time requirements and justification, and/or
    tables, figures and references (no more than 1 page in total).

Electronic submissions will be accepted in PDF format ONLY. Scheduling of
successful proposals will be done according to availability of the receivers
requested. The final proposal pdf file should be emailed to
kuan@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw by midnight (23:59 pm CST) October 01, 2015 (Thursday).


Kind regards,
Yi-Jehng Kuan
on behalf of UCAT's ARO TAC

==============================================================================
