> Date: Fri, 8 May 2015 14:39:32 +0800
> From: Shiang-Yu Wang <sywang@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>
> Subject: The third circular for the ASROC 2015 meeting

Dear Yi-Jehng: 

   Here is the third circular for the ASROC meeting. Please help to 
post it on TAN. Thanks. 

best 
Shiang-Yu 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Astronomical Society of the Republic of China 2015 Scientific Assembly 
(ASROC2015) 

National Ilan University, I-Lan 

May 22 – 24, 2015 

      The 2015 Scientific Assembly of the Astronomical Society of the 
Republic of China (ASROC2015) will be held at National Ilan University 
on May 22 (Friday) – 24 (Sunday), 20145. This is the annual event for 
all astronomers and astrophysicists in Taiwan to present their most 
recent discoveries and observations, to report their latest research 
results and to exchange ideas, also to organize collaborations when 
desirable. ASROC2015 is also an excellent venue for students, in 
particular graduate students, to present their research findings or 
progress from their thesis studies. 

       The meeting will include plenary talks, scientific and 
educational sessions, poster presentations, and a business meeting. 
The featured plenary speakers are 1) Dr. Timo Prusti from European 
Space Agency. 2) Dr. Joel Parker of Southwest Research Institute. Dr. 
Prusti is the project scientist of the GAIA mission and also the chair 
of the GAIA Science Team. He will give a plenary talk on “Gaia Mission 
and Status”. Dr. Parker is the director of the Planetary Science 
Directorate of Southwest Research Institute, and he will talk about 
“The Rosetta Mission - Past, Present, and Future”. The scientific 
program, including oral talks and poster presentations, is now 
available at the meeting website: 

http://www.asroc.org.tw/asroc2015/en/program.php 

In the Assembly, the Society will also present the 2nd Heaven Quest 
Award to Academician Dr. Typhoon Lee for his distinguished 
contribution to astronomical research, and the 2nd Heaven Talk Award 
to Director Wei-Hsin Sun of National Museum of Natural Science for his 
outstanding contribution to astronomy education and popularization of 
astronomy on May 24 (Sun). In addition to the scientific agenda, the 
afternoon of May 23 (Sat) is reserved for group discussions or group 
excursions at choice; a conference banquet will be held later in the 
evening and all meeting participants are welcome to attend. 

       The online registration of ASROC2015 is now closed; those who 
missed the online registration can still register on-site. A 
registration fee of NT$1000 (NT$800 for students) should be paid on 
site. Registration fee will be waived for ASROC members with 2015 
annual membership fee paid. 

The Local Organizing Committee would like to remind all participants 
of the following items: 

◎    Oral Presentations: 

Oral contributions are scheduled for 15 minutes, including 3 minutes 
Q&A. All speakers are strongly recommended to load your presentation 
files onto the on-site computer before your session. The meeting will 
provide computers equipped with Microsoft and Mac platforms and 
standard presentation software. Please test your presentations in 
advance. 

◎    Poster Presentations: 

The usable size of the poster board is about 80 cm wide and 150 cm 
high. Posters should be set up before 5:00 pm on May 22. Authors can 
identify their poster boards by the tagged ID number on top of each 
board. All posters should be removed by their authors before noon on 
May 24. 

A competition for the Best Poster Award among student presentations 
will be held during the meeting. Poster authors are recommended to 
attend their posters during coffee breaks. The three awardees will be 
given the opportunity to present a 3-minute oral report each on their 
award-winning research work in the General Assembly to be held at 
10:05 – 10:45 am on May 24 (Sun). 

◎    Tours: 

For the excursions on May 23 (Saturday), advanced application is 
required to get to the turtle island. No more requests will be 
accepted. 

◎    Payment: 

Payment includes the registration fee (NT$ 1000/person, 800 for 
students), tour (NT$900/person), and banquet (NT$50/person). Please 
prepare exact changes for your applicable payment at the time of 
registration. 

Again, the ASROC sincerely welcomes you to joining the 2015 Annual 
Meeting. For more information, please visit the ASROC2015 website at: 

       http://www.asroc.org.tw/asroc2015/en/index.php 

       For e-mail contact: service@www.asroc.org.tw 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

best 
Shiang-Yu 

==============================================================================
