==============================================================================

Arizona Radio Observatory: Call for Proposals (2020B)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To Astronomers and Astrophysicists of Taiwan,

The Arizona Radio Observatory (ARO) solicits observing proposals for the
10-meter Submillimeter Telescope (SMT) located on Mount Graham, Arizona, for
the period October 15, 2020 - February 15, 2021. No new proposals for the ALMA
Prototype 12-meter Telescope (12m) located on Kitt Peak, Arizona will be
accepted for this current call as proposals from the 2020A call for proposals
will be carried over to the 2020B proposal period. Proposal candidates from
members of the University Consortium of ALMA-Taiwan (UCAT) and ASIAA should
submit up to THREE pages of scientific and technical justification (including
figures, tables, and references) in addition to their Proposal Summary Sheet
(download form here):
https://www.as.arizona.edu/sites/default/files/ARO_Proposal_Cover_Sheet.pdf

All proposal candidates are required to list on the Proposal Summary Sheet
their requested observing blocks (the exact LST ranges to be scheduled and
number of times to be repeated), dates on which they are NOT available to
observe, and dates in which sources in those observing blocks are within the
Sun-avoidance zone (45 degrees at the SMT, 10 degrees at the 12m).

The 10m SMT currently supports dual-polarization sideband-separating (SBS)
observations at 1mm (211-280 GHz) and dual-polarization double-sideband
observations at 0.8mm (325-370 GHz). The SMT control system supports both
dual-polarization ("2 IF mode") and dual-polarization + dual-sideband
observations ("4 IF mode") with tunable IF from 4.5-7.5 GHz, for position-
switched, beam-switched, and OTF observations.  Proposal candidates should
consult the ARO Equipment Summary and Status sheet for additional technical
specifications:
https://www.as.arizona.edu/arizona-radio-observatory

Remote observing is available. Observers who plan to observe remotely must
supply fixed IP address(es) of the computer(s) that will be used during
observing on their Proposal Summary Sheet. For further information about
remote observing and other operational questions, please contact the ARO
Software Engineer Natalie Gandilo ngandilo@email.arizona.edu

Scheduling of successful proposals will be done according to availability of
the receivers requested. Based on scientific merit, projects which request
observing time longer than 24 hours will be considered. Graduate student
participation is especially encouraged. Proposals should be emailed as a
single file in PDF format to kuan[at]asiaa.sinica.edu.tw by 23:59 CST on
August 27, 2020 (Thursday).

==============================================================================
