==============================================================================

Arizona Radio Observatory: Call for Proposals (2020A)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To Astronomers and Astrophysicists of Taiwan:


The Arizona Radio Observatory (ARO) solicits observing proposals for the ALMA
Prototype 12-meter Telescope (12m) located on Kitt Peak, Arizona, and for the
10-meter Submillimeter Telescope (SMT) located on Mount Graham, Arizona, for
the period March 1, 2020 - June 15, 2020. Proposal candidates from members of
the University Consortium of ALMA-Taiwan (UCAT) and ASIAA should submit up to
THREE pages of scientific and technical justification (including figures,
tables, and references) in addition to their Proposal Summary Sheet (form here):

https://www.as.arizona.edu/sites/default/files/ARO_Proposal_Cover_Sheet.pdf


All proposal candidates are required to list on the Proposal Summary Sheet
their requested observing blocks (the exact LST ranges to be scheduled and
number of times to be repeated), dates on which they are NOT available to
observe, and dates in which sources in those observing blocks are within the
Sun-avoidance zone (45 degrees at the SMT, 10 degrees at the 12m).


The 12m ALMA Prototype antenna currently supports dual-polarization sideband-
separating (SBS) observations in three bands: 4mm (66 - 90 GHz), 3mm (84 - 116
GHz), and 1mm (211 - 275 GHz). Observations at 1mm must be clearly justified
as to why they cannot be performed on the SMT.  The 12m control system supports
dual-polarization in the same sideband or single-polarization in each sideband
("2 IF mode"; fixed 6.0 GHz IF frequency), position-switched, beam-switched,
and OTF observations. Backend modes for the AROWS spectrometer may be found on
the ARO Equipment Summary and Status sheet at:

https://www.as.arizona.edu/arizona-radio-observatory


The 10m SMT currently supports a dual-polarization sideband-separating (SBS)
observations at 1mm (211 - 280 GHz) and dual-polarization double-sideband
observations at 0.8mm (325 - 370 GHz).  The SMT is the preferred site for 1mm
observations. We note that 0.8mm weather is limited during this semester. The
SMT control system supports both dual-polarization ("2 IF mode") and dual-
polarization + dual-sideband observations ("4 IF mode") with tunable IF from
4.5 - 7.5 GHz, for position-switched, beam-switched, and OTF observations\.
Proposal candidates should consult the ARO Equipment Summary and Status sheet
for additional technical specifications:

https://www.as.arizona.edu/arizona-radio-observatory

Remote observing is available. Observers who plan to observe remotely must
supply fixed IP address(es) of the computer(s) that will be used during
observing on their Proposal Summary Sheet. For further information about
remote observing and other operational questions, please contact the ARO
Software Engineers: Tom Folkers:

tfolkers@email.arizona.edu or Natalie Gandilo ngandilo@email.arizona.edu


Scheduling of successful proposals will be done according to availability of
the receivers requested.  Graduate student participation is especially
encouraged.

Projects which require long telescope time, e.g.  > 24 hrs, are possible based
on scientific merit.  Proposals should be emailed in PDF format to
kuan[at]asiaa.sinica.edu.tw by midnight (23:59 CST) on February 26, 2020
(Wednesday).

==============================================================================
