Arizona Radio Observatory: Call for Proposals (Fall 2016)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Astronomers in Taiwan,

Observing proposals from members of the University Consortium of ALMA-Taiwan
UCAT) and ASIAA for the 10-meter Submillimeter Telescope (SMT), located on
Mount Graham, Arizona, and the new ALMA Prototype 12-meter Telescope (12m)
located on Kitt Peak, Arizona, of the Arizona Radio Observatory (ARO) are
being solicited for the period October 15, 2016 to February 15, 2017. Graduate
student participation is especially encouraged. The proposal deadline for this
2016 fall semester is set on September 10, 2016 (Saturday).

The SMT currently supports a dual-polarization 1-mm (211-275 GHz) receiver
with ALMA Band 6 sideband-separating (SBS) mixers, a dual-polarization 0.8-mm
(320-370 GHz) receiver, a dual-polarization 0.7 mm (420-500 GHz) SIS receiver
with SBS mixers, a 0.4-mm (602-720 GHz) dual-polarization receiver with ALMA
Band 9 mixers, and a new Band 7 receiver with SBS mixers is also available.
The SMT control system supports both dual-polarization ("2 IF mode"), and
dual-polarization, dual-sideband observations ("4 IF mode"), as well as OTF
mapping. The new 12m supports an ALMA Band-3 dual-polarization SBS receiver
(84-116 GHz).

Remote observing is available. Observers who plan to observe remotely must
supply fixed IP address(es) of the computer(s) that will be used during
observing on their Proposal Summary Sheet. Proposal candidates should consult
the ARO website, https://www.as.arizona.edu/aro/ , for technical
specifications.

Proposal candidates can download the updated Proposal Summary Sheet here:
https://www.as.arizona.edu/aro/proposal_submission_information.htm . Proposal
candidates are required to list on the Proposal Summary Sheet their requested
observing blocks (LST ranges), dates on which they are NOT available to
observe, and dates in which sources in those observing blocks are within the
Sun-avoidance zone (44 degrees at the SMT, 10 degrees at the 12m). Proposal
candidates are also encouraged to submit up to THREE pages of scientific
justification (including figures and/or tables) with their Proposal Summary
Sheet. Electronic submissions will be accepted in PDF format ONLY. Scheduling
of successful proposals will be done according to availability of the
receivers requested. The proposal PDF file should be emailed to
kuan[at]asiaa.sinica.edu.tw by midnight (23:59 CST) September 10, 2016
(Saturday).

==============================================================================
