Arizona Radio Observatory: Call for Proposals (Spring 2017)
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dear Astronomers in Taiwan,

Observing proposals from members of the University Consortium of ALMA-Taiwan
(UCAT) and ASIAA for the 10-meter Submillimeter Telescope (SMT) located on
Mount Graham, Arizona, and the new ALMA Prototype 12-meter Telescope (12m)
located on Kitt Peak, Arizona, of the Arizona Radio Observatory (ARO) are being
solicited for the period February 15 to June 15, 2017. Graduate student
participation is especially encouraged. The proposal deadline for this 2017
spring semester is set on January 20, 2017 (Friday).

The new 12m antenna supports an ALMA Band-3 (84-116 GHz) dual-polarization SBS
(sideband-separating) receiver. The SMT currently supports a dual-polarization
ALMA Band-6 1-mm (211-275 GHz) receiver with SBS mixers, a dual-polarization
Band-7 (320-370 GHz) receiver, and a Band-9 (602-720 GHz) dual-polarization
receiver with ALMA Band-9 mixers. The SMT control system supports both
dual-polarization ("2 IF mode"), and dual-polarization, dual-sideband
observations ("4 IF mode"), as well as OTF mapping. Proposal candidates should
consult the ARO website for technical specifications:
  https://www.as.arizona.edu/arizona-radio-observatory 

Proposal candidates should download the updated Proposal Summary Sheet here:
  https://www.as.arizona.edu/proposals-0 
Proposal candidates are required to list on the Proposal Summary Sheet their
requested observing blocks (LST ranges), dates (MST=UTC-7hrs) on which they are
NOT available to observe, and dates in which sources in those observing blocks
are within the Sun-avoidance zone (44 degrees at the SMT, 10 degrees at the
12m). Proposal candidates are also encouraged to submit up to THREE pages of
scientific and technical justification (including figures and/or tables) with
their Proposal Summary Sheet.

Operator-assisted remote observing is available. Observers who plan to observe
remotely must supply fixed IP address(es) of the computer(s) that will be used
during observing on their Proposal Summary Sheet. Information about remote
observing can be viewed at: http://aro.as.arizona.edu/remote/remote.htm .

Proposals should be emailed in PDF format to kuan[at]asiaa.sinica.edu.tw by
midnight (23:59 CST) January 20, 2017 (Friday).

==============================================================================
