> Date: Thu, 10 Mar 2016 01:06:29 +0800
> From: Shiang-Yu Wang <sywang@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>
> Subject: second circular for ASROC 2016 meeting

Dear Yi-Jehng:

  Could you help to put the circular in TAN? Thanks.

Shiang-Yu

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Astronomical Society of the Republic of China 2016 Scientific Assembly
(ASROC2016)

National Cheng Kung University, Tainan

May 13 - 15, 2016

The 2016 Scientific Assembly of the Astronomical Society of the
Republic of China (ASROC2016) will be held at National Cheng Kung
University on May 13 (Friday)  15 (Sunday), 2016.  This is an annual
event for all astronomers and astrophysicists in Taiwan to present
their most recent discoveries and observations, to report their latest
research results and to exchange ideas, also to organize
collaborations when desirable.  Oral presentations and conference
posters in all areas of astronomy and astrophysics are solicited.
ASROC2016 is also an excellent venue for students, in particular
graduate students, to present their research findings or progress from
their thesis studies.

The meeting will include plenary talks, scientific and educational
sessions, poster presentation, and a business meeting. The featured
plenary speakers are 1) Prof. Harold A. Weaver, Jr. of Johns Hopkins
University. 2) Mr. Zoltan G. Levay of Space Telescope Science
Institute (STScI). Prof. Weaver, the New Horizons project scientist,
will give a plenary talk on ¨The Exploration of Pluto and the Kuiper
Belt by New Horizons.〃 Mr. Levay, the Imaging Group Lead of the Office
of Public Outreach and PI of the Hubble Heritage Project at STScI,
will talk about ¨Visualizing Hubble's Colorful Universe.〃

In the Assembly, the Society will also present the 3rd Heaven Quest
Award to Academician Frank Shu for his distinguished contributions to
astronomical research, and the 3rd Heaven Talk Award to Prof.
Han-Tzong Su and the APOD Chinese translation team in National Cheng
Kung University for their outstanding contributions to astronomy
education and popularization of astronomy. In addition to the
scientific agenda, a conference banquet will be held at noon on May 14
(Sat) and all meeting participants are welcome to attend; the
afternoon is reserved for group discussions or group excursions of
choice. Exhibitions of astronomical books and instruments are also
planned during the meeting.

ASROC2016 website is now open for registration and abstract
submission. The deadline for online registration is April 15 and for
abstract submission, March 31. Participants of the Scientific Assembly
should submit their abstracts and register on-line. A registration fee
of NT$1,000 (NT$800 for students) should be paid on site. The LOC has
secured 45 rooms at Zenda Suite; participants who would like to stay
there should fax or email the reservation form to Zenda Suite before
these rooms are released on April 13. For more detailed information
and update, please visit the ASROC2016 website at
http://www.asroc.org.tw/asroc2016/en

LOC of 2016 ASROC meeting

==============================================================================
