
              Astronomical Society of the Republic of China
                  2012 Scientific Assembly (ASROC2012)

            National Taitung University (Taitung Campus), Taitung
                             May 25 - 27, 2012

The 2012 Scientific Assembly of the Astronomical Society of the Republic of
China (ASROC2012) will be held at National Taitung University on May 25 - 27,
2012. This is the annual event for all astronomers and astrophysicists in Taiwan
to demonstrate their most recent discoveries and observations, to report their
latest research results and to exchange ideas, also to organize cooperation when
desirable. Oral presentations and conference posters in all areas of astronomy
and astrophysics are solicited. ASROC2012 is an excellent venue, too, for
students, in particular graduate students, to present their research finding or
progress from their thesis studies.

    The meeting will include plenary talks, scientific and educational sessions,
poster presentation, a business meeting, and an outreach program. The plenary
talks feature (1) Dr. Michael Mumma, Director, Goddard Center for Astrobiology,
NASA Astrobiology Institute on Comet Taxonomy and Astrobiology (tentative) and
(2) Dr. Jesus Galindo Trejo, Senior Research Fellow, Institute of Aesthetic
Research, National Autonomous University of Mexico on Mayan Astronomy and 2012
Doomsday - the Prophecy of Maya (tentative).

    ASROC2012 website will be ready by mid-February, and on-line registration
will be also available. Participants of the scientific assembly should submit
their abstracts and register on-line. A registration fee of NT$500 should be
paid on site. In addition, contributions in the ASROC meeting, including oral
talks and poster presentations will be published in the Journal of Taipei
Astronomical Museum. Details about the page limits and format of the papers will
be described in the second circular and the website of the Astronomical Society.

    The Astronomical Society cordially invites you to participate in this annual
event with all the many interesting and exciting activities. For more details
and updated information, please visit the ASROC website at
http://www.asroc.org.tw/ .


    Program Committee
    --------------------
    Kuan, Yi-Jehng      (NTNU; Co-Chair)
    Chang, Hsiang-Kuang (NTHU)
    Hwang, Chorng-Yuan  (NCU)
    Chin, Yi-Nan        (TKU)
    Chang, Kuei-Lan     (TAM)
    Hsu, Rue-Ron        (NCKU; Co-Chair)
    Wang, Shiang-Yu     (ASIAA)
    Wu, Jiun-Huei Proty (NTU)


    Local Organizing Committee 
    -----------------------------
    Liu, Sheng-Yuan (ASIAA; Co-Chair)
    Yang,  I-Ching  (NTTU; Co-Chair)
    Tseng, Yao-Huan (ASIAA; Co-Chair)
    Liu, Pei-Ju     (NTNU)

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
