> Date: Wed, 8 Feb 2012 10:08:00 +0800
> Subject: Re: TAN (Issue Feb 04 - 07, 2012)
> From: Mingjye Wang <mingjye@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>
> To: Taiwan Astronomy Network <astro@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>

Dear Yi-Jehng

   Please help to circulate the following information about the position of
EACOA postdoctoral Fellowship. The deadline of application is 31th March.
Thanks a lot.

Best Regards,

Ming-Jye
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Job Announcement: EACOA Fellowship 2012

The East Asian Core Observatories Association (EACOA) is an alliance of
four major astronomical research institutions in East Asia dedicated to
promote regional research cooperation. Member institutes of the EACOA are;
the National Astronomical Observatories, Chinese Academy of Science (NAOC),
the National Astronomical Observatory of Japan (NAOJ), Korean Astronomy and
Space Science Institute (KASI), and Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy
and Astrophysics (ASIAA). The EACOA announces an opportunity for highly
qualified individuals to apply for EACOA postdoctoral fellowships, starting
in 2012, to conduct research in all branches of astronomy and astrophysics.
Successful candidates will have an initial appointment of three years,
extendable for an additional two years (up to a total of 5 years), and are
expected to develop independent research programs as well as to integrate
with the existing activities at the EACOA member institutes. Fellows are
expected to work full-time on their research programs, and to be in
residence in at least two EACOA member Institutions during the period of
the Fellowship appointment.

Please see http://www-irc.mtk.nao.ac.jp/~fumi/EACOA-E/index.php?Fellow for
detailed information. The EACOA Fellowship is open to applicants of any
nationality, who have obtained their PhD in Astronomy or equivalent degree
in the related fields. For the year 2012 program, a monthly allowance of
US$5,000 will be paid as a fellowship award and relocation expenses will be
provided by the EACOA, through the NAOC. Also, research funds of ~US$20,000
/ year will be provided by the host institutes. In addition to these,
additional support for travel, etc. will be available.

Applications submitted before or on 31 March 2012 will receive full
consideration.

Applicants should submit their application documents and materials
electronically as specified in the application instructions. Applications
must include letters of endorsement from the host scientists confirming the
research project.

Up to three EACOA Fellowships will be awarded in 2012. The EACOA institutes
are actively committed to equal opportunity in employment.

Email Address for Inquiries: irc@nao.ac.jp
------------------------------------------------------------------------

==============================================================================
