
> From: Yen-Ting Lin <ytl@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>
> Date: Sat, 20 Oct 2018 09:17:13 +0800
> Subject: postdoc openings at ASIAA

Hi Prof. Kuan,

Could you please post the following ad to TAN?

thanks,
yen-ting

_____________________________________________________________

Postdoctoral Positions in Observation, Theory, or Instrumentation at ASIAA

http://www.asiaa.sinica.edu.tw/jobopening/ad.php?i=affba631db0c53b327371257bb12d2aa

The Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics (ASIAA) in
Taipei, Taiwan, has openings for postdoctoral positions. We seek for
candidates (1) to participate in the Institute's projects, including
ALMA, SMA, JCMT, Greenland telescope (GLT), intensity mapping with
Y.T. Lee Array, Subaru HSC and PFS surveys, SDSS-IV, and TAOS-2; (2)
to pursue studies of planetary and solar system science, star and
planet formation, nearby galaxies, galaxy formation, cosmology,
computational fluid dynamics, MHD, and high energy astrophysics; or
(3) to participate in instrumentation development for optical/IR/submm
telescopes.

ASIAA has approximately 200 staff, including 38 faculty members. ASIAA
has access to forefront observing facilities including ALMA, SMA,
JCMT, CFHT, and Subaru Telescope. We are partners in the Subaru Hyper
Suprime-Cam (HSC) and Prime Focus Spectrograph (PFS) projects, and are
a member of the SDSS-IV, CFHT-SPIRou, and LSST Surveys. The Y.T. Lee
Array on Mauna Loa is conducting intensity mapping of CO rotational
transitions. The GLT has recently started submm VLBI observations to
image shadows of supermassive black holes and related sciences. The
TAOS-2 project will start a survey of small objects beyond Neptune via
occultation and other time-domain sciences at San Pedro Martir,
Mexico. Theoretical and computational astrophysics is pursued in the
Theory group (TIARA); we develop theory and numerical simulations to
bridge theories and observations in hydrodynamics, astrochemistry, and
radiative transfer. More info on our projects can be found at the
ASIAA website.

ASIAA offers excellent research facilities and an international
environment (~50 foreign members from 18 countries), with English
being the working language. The postdoc appointments will initially be
for two years, with possible extension for additional two years based
on satisfactory performance.

Applicants should hold a Ph.D. degree in astronomy/astrophysics,
physics, engineering or equivalent fields. Those who are expecting to
receive a PhD degree soon can also apply. Applicants should apply
online (https://www.asiaa.sinica.edu.tw/jobopening/application.php?i=affba631db0c53b327371257bb12d2aa)
and submit (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) a publication list, (3) a
summary of past and current research or instrumentation experience
(limited to 3 pages), and (4) a plan for future research (limited to 3
pages of text, with at most 2 additional pages for figures and
references).  Applicants are also requested to arrange three letters
of recommendation to be submitted online at the same site by the
deadline, 16 November 2018.

==============================================================================
