> Date: Wed, 5 Jul 2017 07:33:32 +0800
> From: Yen-Ting Lin <ytl@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>
> Subject: postdoc position openings at ASIAA

Hi Prof. Kuan, 

Could you please post this ad to TAN? 

best regards, 
yen-ting 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Postdoctoral Positions in Observation, Theory, or Instrumentation 

The Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics (ASIAA) 
has openings for postdoctoral positions; we seek for (1) optical/IR 
astronomers to pursue research topics related to Institute interests 
(e.g., HSC, PFS, and/or SDSS-4); (2) radio astronomers to pursue 
scientific observations or participate in ongoing tests and 
software-developments with ALMA, SMA, VLBI; (3) solar system or 
planetary astronomers to participate in the study of small objects 
beyond Neptune through TAOS-2; (4) scientists or engineers to 
participate in instrumentation development for Optical/IR telescopes 
or radio telescopes; or (5) scientists with backgrounds in 
astrophysics or planetary sciences to pursue topics in theoretical 
astrophysics, computational fluid dynamics, or MHD. 

ASIAA offers excellent research facilities, including ALMA, SMA, JCMT, 
VLBI, Subaru, CFHT, SDSS-4, TAOS-2, powerful computing clusters, and 
an international environment (~55 foreign members from 18 countries), 
where English is the working language. 

Applicants should hold a Ph.D. degree in astronomy/astrophysics, 
physics, engineering or equivalent fields. Those who are expecting to 
receive a PhD degree soon can also apply. The postdoc appointments at 
ASIAA will initially be for two years, with possible extension for 
additional two years based on satisfactory performance. 

Applicants should apply online 
http://www.asiaa.sinica.edu.tw/jobopening/ad.php?i=21d1a5d65e45ef11146e7430f6c28028 
and submit (1) a curriculum vitae, (2) publication list, (3) a summary 
of past and current research (or instrumentation experience), and (4) 
a plan for future research. Applicants are also requested to arrange 
three letters of recommendation to be submitted online at the same 
site. Applications submitted by or on 20 July 2017 will receive full 
consideration. 

==============================================================================
