
Arizona Radio Observatory - Call for Proposals: Spring 2011 (Feb 10, 2011)

------------------------------------------------------------
Dear all,

UCAT-ASIAA's ARO proposals are being solicited for observing time for the
period February 15 - June 15, 2011, and the proposal deadline for this 2011
spring semester is set on February 10, 2011 (Thursday).

The Arizona Radio Observatory operates the Sub-Millimeter Telescope (SMT) and
the Kitt Peak 12 Meter. The SMT currently supports a dual-polarization, 1 mm
receiver with ALMA Band-6 sideboard-separating mixers, a dual-polarization 0.8
mm receiver, and a 0.4 mm (602-720 GHz) dual-polarization receiver with ALMA
Band-9 mixers. The SMT control system has been updated to allow for dual
polarization, dual sideband observations (so-called "4 IF mode"). The 12 m
supports 2 mm and 3 mm (65-176 GHz) dual-polarization receivers. A new 3 mm
receiver is available at the 12 m for the 85-116 GHz band (3 mm HI), also
dual-polarization employing ALMA Band-3 sideboard-separating mixers. Remote
observing is accessible at both ARO telescopes.

Please refer to http://aro.as.arizona.edu/ for more details.

Information about Remote Observing can be viewed at:
http://aro.as.arizona.edu/remote/remote.htm .

For further information about remote observing and other operational questions,
please contact Tom Folkers, Operations Manager: tfolkers@as.arizona.edu.

People are required to use the 12m and SMT proposal cover/summary sheets for
their proposals:
(attainable under "Proposal Submission Information" at
http://aro.as.arizona.edu/proposal_submission_information.htm 
for the SMT -
http://aro.as.arizona.edu/proposals/smt_prop_sub.htm 
and for the 12m -
http://aro.as.arizona.edu/proposals/12m_prop_sub.htm )

Proposals should consist of a proposal Cover Sheet, obtainable at
http://aro.as.arizona.edu/proposals/ ,
and a brief scientific and technical justification. The justification may be up
to two pages of text, and should NOT exceed three pages in total including
tables, figures, references and a source list with observing time requirements.
For electronic submission, UCAT-ASIAA only accepts proposals in either PS/EPS
or PDF formats.

Please submit your proposals by midnight (23:59 pm CST) February 10, 2011 to
kuan(at)asiaa.sinica.edu.tw .

Kind regards,
Yi-Jehng Kuan
on behalf of the UCAT-ASIAA ARO TAC

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
