> Date: Wed, 20 Nov 2013 09:43:26 +0800
> Subject: ASIAA/CCMS/IAMS/LeCosPA/NTU-Physics Joint Colloquium, November 26
> From: "J.-P. Wu" <jpw750811@gmail.com>
> To: swallow <swallow@phys.ntu.edu.tw>, whchen <whchen@gate.sinica.edu.tw>,
        astro <astro@asiaa.sinica.edu.tw>,


Dear Colleagues,

You are cordially invited to attend the Joint Colloquium which will be held
on November 26 (http://web.phys.ntu.edu.tw/colloquium/).

The Joint Colloquium Series is organized by the NTU Physics Department,
Center for Condensed Matter Science (CCMS), Leung Center for Cosmology and
Particle Astrophysics (LeCosPA), Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and
Astrophysics (ASIAA), and the Institute of Atomic and Molecular Sciences
(IAMS).

The idea is to have excellent speakers to give inspiring, informative, but
non-technical talks on the frontiers of Sciences.

Enclosed below is the information of the Joint Colloquium on November 26.

Best regards,

Yen-Ting Lin (ASIAA)
Michitoshi Hayashi (CCMS)
Lain-Jong Li (IAMS)
Jiwoo Nam (LeCosPA)
Juinn-Wei Chen (NTU-Phys)

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ASIAA/CCMS/IAMS/LeCosPA/NTU-Physics Joint Colloquium

Speaker: John Ellis

              (King's College London)

Topic : Particle Physics after the Discovery of the Higgs Boson

Time  : 11/26 (Tue.) 14:20 - 15:20

Place : Room 104, CCMS-New Physics Building

Abstract:
    The discovery of the Higgs boson by the ATLAS and CMS experiments at
the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN, described recently in a colloquium
here by George Hou, opens up new perspectives in particle physics. This
colloquium will describe ideas for possible new physics beyond the Standard
Model, much of it motivated by astrophysics and cosmology, such as dark
matter. This colloquium will also discuss prospects for discovering new
physics with the LHC and other possible future accelerators.

Brief Bio:
    John Ellis currently holds the Clerk Maxwell Professorship of
Theoretical Physics at King's College in London. After obtaining a PhD from
Cambridge University and post-doctoral positions at SLAC and Caltech, from
1973 to 2011 he worked at CERN (Geneva), where he was Theory Division
Leader for six years.
    His research interests focus on the phenomenological aspects of
elementary particle physics and its connections with astrophysics,
cosmology and quantum gravity. Much of his work relates directly to
experiment: interpreting results of searches for new particles and
exploring the physics that could be done with future accelerators. A
proposal he made in 1976 led to the discovery of the gluon in 1979, and he
was one of the first to study how the Higgs boson could be produced and
discovered. He has authored nearly a thousand scientific papers, with over
fifty thousand citations in total. He is currently very active in efforts
to understand the Higgs particle discovered recently at CERN, as well as
its implications for possible new physics such as dark matter. He has long
been an early protagonist of new particle accelerator projects, including
the Large Electron-Positron (LEP), Large Hadron Collider (LHC), Compact
Linear Collider (CLIC) and now future very large circular colliders at
CERN. He is also known for his relentless efforts to promote global
collaboration at CERN.
    John Ellis was awarded the Maxwell Medal (1982) and the Paul Dirac
Prize (2005) by the Institute of Physics. He was elected Fellow of the
Royal Society of London in 1985 and of the Institute of Physics in 1991,
and is an Honorary Fellow of King's College Cambridge and of the Serbian
Physical Society. He has been awarded Honorary Doctorates by the University
of Southampton, Uppsala University, the St Kliment Ohridski University, the
Ukrainian Academy of Sciences and the University of Cape Town.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

==============================================================================
